# Portfolio
 Hi my name is Alan Lanceloth, and welcome to my Github Portfolio.  
 This repo contains all of my Data Science projects.  

 Here is my [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alanlanceloth/).
 
 Below, you can check a brief description of my projects.
 
 ## Table of Contents
=================
<!--ts-->
   * [Project 1 - Previsao de Vendas - Sales Predict](#project-1-previsao-de-vendas---sales-predict)
   * [Project 2 - Binance bot](#project-2---binance-bot)
   * [Project 3 - Olist Database](#project-3---olist-database)
   * [Project 4 - ETL Dito CRM](#project-4---etl-dito-crm)
<!--te-->

### Project 1 - Previsao de Vendas - Sales Predict
 **Goal:** The goal of this project is to predict the Sales of a company by their advertising investment using Machine Learning.  

 **Description:** In this project I've made a comparrison with Linear Regression and Decision Tree models.  

 **Results:** The Decision Tree proved a R2 higher and have returned that the TV advertisement investment have more impact in the Sales revenue.  
 Also, we've checked that the company is spending more money with a form of advertising that is not so efficient (*'Jornal'* compared with *'Radio'*).  
 
### Project 2 - Binance bot

**Goal:** The main goal of this project is to build a bot that can send orders to Binance based on preset strategies.

**Description:** This robot currently has the ability to compare the price paid in Bitcoin, and compare it every X hours (predefined by user) with the current price. After the comparison, the robot sends a message to the user informing the current Bitcoin price and if the user is making a profit.
In the future, this price comparison module will be absorbed by the main objective of the project - the execution of orders based on predefined strategies.

**Results:** So far, a module for comparing prices and sending results via Telegram has been built.
The robot also has the ability to access the asset price via the Binance API and the Dollar quote via the awesomeapi API.

### Project 3 - Olist database

**Goal:** The purpose of this project is to demonstrate the use of essential skills for a data scientist.

**Description:** Using the data obtained from Kaggle through [link](https://www.kaggle.com/leandroal/an-lise-do-e-commerce-no-brasil-olist-dataset), a project was created with the aim of to demonstrate skills necessary for a data scientist. Are they:
  - Creation of a database in a Cloud environment (Google Cloud Platform - GCP) from CSV files.
  - Extraction, Transformation and Loading of data through Python using APIs to connect to GCP.
  - Exploratory data analysis
  - Machine Learning
  - Feature Engineering

**Results:** Em desenvolvimento.

### Project 4 - ETL Dito CRM

**Goal:** The purpose of this project is to demonstrate the use of ETL and Webscrapping skills using Selenium, and upload files to an FTP.

**Description:** The request for this project came through a customer, who needs a CSV file from an E-mail Marketing results platform called Dito.
This CSV file contains the results of the campaigns sent and must be delivered daily on an FTP (from the customer), to be later uploaded to a database by the customer's database team.
When analyzing the platform (Dito), we found that it has no way of exporting the results via API and also via sending the results file by email through scheduling.
Therefore, we chose a well-known approach, using Selenium and Webscrapping techniques.
The steps, in general, followed to extract the data were:
   - Login to the platform
   - Setup of necessary filters
   - Request for data export
   - Wait 4 min (enough to generate the report)
   - Download the .txt generated by the platform
   - Transformation (encode/decode) of the file to interpret special characters
   - Upload the file to the customer's FTP

One detail is the monitoring of the task through a bot on Telegram, which proved to be a success.
The daily execution of this job is scheduled in the customer Airflow.

**Results:** The result of this project was the success in sending the file via FTP to the client and also in the daily monitoring of this task via Telegram.